---
layout: default
title: speaking
---

*2009*
•	Keynote, Canadian Music Week, Toronto, March 2009.
•	Panel speaker, "Digital Music - Forging Ahead with New Business Models," MusicEcon Conference, Los Angeles, CA, February 2009.
•	Panel speaker, "Listen up - Why knowing your fans matters," MIDEM, Cannes, January 2009.


*2008*
•	Keynote speaker, "Recursive Innovation - Building Linden Lab and Second Life," Computer Supported Cooperative Work, San Diego, CA, November 2008.
•	Keynote speaker, "Riding the Wave - Innovation and the Future of Music," Digital Music Forum West, October 2008.
•	Keynote speaker, "Virtual Worlds," International Market Assessment India, July 2008.
•	Panel speaker, "Collapsing Geography," Games, Learning and Society Conference, Madison, WI, July 2008.
•	Keynote speaker, "Future of Virtual Worlds," Freescale Technology Conference, Orlando, FL, June 2008.
•	Gerson Lehrman Group seminar, "Virtual Worlds - the Next 18 months", Palo Alto, CA, May 2008.
•	Panelist on the future of virtual worlds, MetaverseU, February 2008.
•	Faculty seminar on virtual worlds, Annenberg School for Communication, January - May 2008.


*2007*
•	Keynote speaker to European Commission Publisher’s Forum, December 2007.
•	Presenter to US-Arab Economic Summit, Bahrain, December 2007.
•	Presenter to National Science Foundation Summit, Boulder, CO, October 2007.
•	Presented Second Life and “Collapsing Geography” to House Commerce Committee chair, ranking member, and staffers, Washington, DC, October 2007.
•	Panelist on “Get a (virtual) life” on NPR Talk of the Nation, Science Friday, August 2007.
•	Culture and communication working group participant at the Aspen Institute FOCAS conference, August 2007.
•	Participant in Rendon Group working session on “Discrediting Suicide Extremism,” August 2007.
•	Keynote speaker on virtual worlds and user-generated content at the iMBx SEASIAN Ministerial Conference in Singapore, June 2007.
•	Participant and provocateur at the 2007 Rueschlikon Conference on “Information Governance” in Zurich, Switzerland, June 2007. This invitation-only forum is hosted by Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government
•	Presented “Collapsing Geography” to UC Irvine MBA students, May 2007.
•	Panelist on user-generated content, Media in Transition conference, April 2007.
•	Keynote speaker at Cisco, ISBG offsite conference, March 2007.
•	Presented “Future of Innovation” at Freedom to Connect conference, March 2007.
•	Presented “Collapsing Geography” at Microsoft Academic Days conference, February 2007.


*2006*
•	Keynote speaker at Beyond 2006, November 2006.
•	Featured speaker at the New Context Conference, September 2006.
•	Panelist on “The Future of Virtual Worlds” and “Beyond Subscriptions” at the Austin Game Conference, September 2006.
•	Presented Second Life at the Aspen Institute FOCAS conference, August 2006.
•	Presented “Building Reality” at Nature/MacMillian Publishing Group Tech Talk, July 2006.
•	Presented “Imagining Reality” at the TransISTor 06 Conference, July 2006.
•	Presented “Education Commons” at the iSummit 06 Conference, June 2006.
•	Participant and provocateur at the 2006 Rueschlikon Conference on “Innovative Entrepreneurship” in Zurich, Switzerland, June 2006. This invitation-only forum is hosted by Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government
•	Panelist on the "Profiting from Innovative Online Communities" at E3, May 2006.
•	Presented “Digital Institutions” at the Berkman Workshop on Digital Institutions, May 2006.
•	Demonstrated Second Life as part of the Games for Health Capital Hill Demos, sponsored by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, April 2006.
•	Presented “Online Worlds as Online Nations”, Game Developers Conference, March 2006.
•	Presented Second Life as a High Order Bit, O’Reilly ETech, March 2006.
•	Panelist and moderator for "Physical Simulations and Virtual Worlds", American Association for the Advancement of Science Annual Meeting, February 2006.
•	Keynote speaker at "Microsoft Academic Days: Are Universities Dead?" February 2006.


*2005*
•	Presented “Changing Realities” at the 22nd Chaos Computer Club Conference, December 2005.
•	Presented “People Powered” at the Berkman Luncheon Series, November 2005.
•	Presented “We’re Not in Kansas Anymore” at the National Academies, November 2005.
•	Panelist on the “State of Play Dinner Panel” at State of Play 3, October 2005.
•	Presented “One Thing to Tell the World About Games” at Accelerating Change, September 2005.
•	Presented “People Powered Places: Some Missing Pieces” at FooCamp, August 2005.
•	Presented “People Powered Places” at Microsoft Research Tech Talk, August 2005.
•	Presented “Innovation at the Edge” at the Navy R&D Partnership Conference, July 2005.
•	Presented “Building Better Places: 5 Missing Pieces” at IBM Tech Talk in Cambridge, MA, July 2005.
•	Presented “Brace for Impact” with Dr. James Cook and Dr. Megan Conklin at the Games, Learning, and Society Conference, Madison, WI, June 2005.
•	Panelist on “Intellectual Property and Virtual Worlds” at the American Bar Association’s Intellectual Property Law Conference, April 2005.
•	Presented “Case Study: Building Serious Game MMPs using Second Life” at the Serious Game Summit, March 2005.
•	Presented “Building Better Place and 5 Bottlenecks” at IBM Austin, February 2005.
•	Panelist on “Ownership in Online Worlds” at the Rules and Borders Conference, February 2005.
•	Presented “Building Better Places” at the Palo Alto Research Center, January 2005.


*2004*
•	Keynote speaker at “Accelerating Change 2004: Physical Space, Virtual Space and Interface.” November 2004.
•	Panelist on “Intellectual Property/Digital Property” at the State of Play 2 Conference, hosted by New York Law School and Yale Law School, October 2004.
•	Moderator for “How to Break into the Game Industry” mini-conference, hosted by the Austin Game Initiative, September 2004.
•	Speaker at the “Virtual Worlds: Design and Future Directions” workshop, part of MIT’s DCC04 conference. July 2004.
•	Participant and speaker at the 2004 Rueschlikon Conference on “Openness, Trust and Sovereignty” in Zurich, Switzerland, June 2004. This invitation-only forum is hosted by Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government
•	Guest speaker on the relationships between intellectual property and digital worlds at Yale Law School and New York Law School, April 2004.
•	Moderator for “How to Break into the Game Industry” mini-conference, hosted by the Austin Game Initiative, January 2004.


*2003*
•	Panelist on “Designing for the Future” at the State of Play Conference, hosted by New York Law School and Yale Law School, November 2003.