---
layout: post
title: why lowered barriers to participation are so cool
excerpt: Seen the leak about the "crunchpad":http://www.crunchgear.com/2009/04/09/crunchtablet-hits-the-net-a-little-early/?  For those who haven't been following this, Michael Arrington of Techcrunch fame "posted":http://www.techcrunch.com/2008/07/21/we-want-a-dead-simple-web-tablet-help-us-build-it/ about a tech idea.  He wanted help to build a small, light, touchscreen pad for browsing the web.  6 months later, they had a "prototype":http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/01/19/techcrunch-tablet-update-prototype-b/.  Yesterday, what looks like a final prototype "leaked":http://www.crunchgear.com/2009/04/09/crunchtablet-hits-the-net-a-little-early/.  It's cute and I can imagine *many* tech geeks wanting one.  Sure, Michael has some unique advantages here, but this is hardware engineering done almost as quickly as a software project.  Yes, that sound you hear is the world changing, again.
---

Seen the leak about the "crunchpad":http://www.crunchgear.com/2009/04/09/crunchtablet-hits-the-net-a-little-early/?  For those who haven't been following this, Michael Arrington of Techcrunch fame "posted":http://www.techcrunch.com/2008/07/21/we-want-a-dead-simple-web-tablet-help-us-build-it/ about a tech idea.  He wanted help to build a small, light, touchscreen pad for browsing the web.  6 months later, they had a "prototype":http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/01/19/techcrunch-tablet-update-prototype-b/.  Yesterday, what looks like a final prototype "leaked":http://www.crunchgear.com/2009/04/09/crunchtablet-hits-the-net-a-little-early/.  It's cute and I can imagine *many* tech geeks wanting one.  Sure, Michael has some unique advantages here, but this is hardware engineering done almost as quickly as a software project.  Yes, that sound you hear is the world changing, again.
