---
layout: post
title: Grading 2009 Predictions
---
With the end of the naughts, it is once again time to grade predictions from last year.

bq. 1) Second Life will return to steady growth and have a shockingly good 2009

I defined "shockingly" as 50% growth and as "James Au":http://nwn.blogs.com/nwn/2010/01/new-year-survey.html points out, Second Life saw an almost precisely 50% growth in active users. Dead on and a good start.
*1 for 1*

bq. 2) Another Republican Senator leaves his party to become an independent, largely caucusing with Senate Democrats.

Awfully nice of "Senator Arlen Specter":http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/04/28/specter-will-run-as-a-democrat-in-2010/ to help me out on this one. I sense a trend.
*2 for 2*

bq. 3) Microsoft gets its shit together

While MS is "getting flack":http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/11/15/microsofts-loss-googles-gain-don-dodge-gets-a-new-job/ for some recent moves, they did make efforts to slim down, Bing nearly doubled MS search share, and Windows 7 has outsold any previous MS operating system release. The roll continues.
*3 for 3*

bq. 4) Across the industry, 2009 global recorded music sales contract by low single digit percentages, pulled down by double digit physical sales drops but buoyed by large digital gains.

Alas, I can't find this stat yet, so will leave this unscored for now.
*3 for 3*

bq. 5) Linden Lab gets acquired

Oops. Still surprised by this.
*3 for 4*

bq. 6) Fiber-to-the-home becomes part of the economic stimulus/economic recovery package

"ARRA":http://www.recovery.gov/Pages/home.aspx contained nearly $40 billion in broadband stimulus, with FTTH part of the overall mix. Back on track.
*4 for 5*

bq. 7) New models for innovation, entrepreneurship, and education emerge during the downturn

While "Y Combinator":http://ycombinator.com/ continues to spawn successes and we've also witnessed an explosion of "Hacker Spaces":http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/, sadly I don't think either really captures the prediction. Damn.
*4 for 6*

bq. 8) Israel learns that there must be a balance between legitimate national security concerns and its moral responsibilities to those it governs

While the recently announced "moratorium":http://www.america.gov/st/peacesec-english/2009/November/20091125151758esnamfuak0.7892725.html&distid=ucs on new settlements is definitely a great step, "exceptions":http://www.latimes.com/news/nation-and-world/la-fg-israel-building29-2009dec29,0,4929127.story seem to abound. Fail.
*4 for 7*

bq. 9) Something completely new in the web, social space will successfully launch in 2009

I set the bar pretty high for this one, but it's hard not to point at "four square":http://foursquare.com/. Sure, it's resurrected Dodge Ball, but the real-world MMO/leveling/achievement elements are new. Back into the win column.
*5 for 8*

bq. 10) I will travel less in 2009 than I did in 2008

Amazingly, despite spending a ton of time on the road with EMI, my actual mileage went down slightly for 2009.  Now to keep that trend going this year!
*6 for 9*

With one prediction left unscored, my 2009 total is 6 for 9 correct, or 0.667. This compares favorably to previous scores of 0.600, 0.500, 0.500, 0.600 and 0.600 for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, with an overall average of 57% for one year predictions, which isn't too bad.

Predictions for 2010 coming soon!